Behaviourism 

Cognitive science

Language faculty - creative use - we expect the system to be creative in response to us

Input/output -> algorithm between them -> implementation

David Marr MIT neuroscientist with Chomsky

How things work perhaps should be hidden

Literature as a brain

Statistical models

Sequencing DNA

Using DATA to tell stories

Dealing with huge systems

Minimum computational unit

Bespoke personality systems for characters

Intentionally break personalities


Emergentism - more than the sum of their parts

Increasing levels of complexity, up to literature - then games model it

Hidden processes, destroying the system before or displaying it

Collective behaviourism

Get fiction writers on board.0, to inject a story around it? 

Acts have no role in games - can we dynamically pace? 

Save anywhere

Tone vs. player fun

Interest is more important than fun

Fix PS3

Same components, different properties

Morowitz the emergence of everything

Properties outside the rules

Isness - not conscious - Tom Bissell - throwing jargon at the wall

Humanising - Black Crown does the opposite.

Games might never push the same buttons

Storytelling and writing are not the same thing

We act like writing in games is the only form of authorship

Creating environments in which stories can be told - but that requires you to tell stories, as well.

Combat is a binary way to connect with people

Play does not necessarily imply connection with the role

Ludonarrative dissonance - games mean we want to understand a system, and we see story as a system; therefore there is a distinct pleasure in lifting it off. 

Story, items etc. as pieces of interchangeable data

Fewer games

Creating a tool vs. Product

Intentionality is not the same as intelligence

Mechanical/statistical modes of intelligence

Approximations, not abstracts.

Randomness within bounds

Perhaps work produced digitally will only ever be surrealistic

Classification is a large part of making games. 

Potential of a game - is this enough? Do we need to change it?

Koster - talks about 'value' of the content of games - games as education. 

But surely art is the education of a person about essential but non-applicable skills. 

Koster - Challenge, feel, freedom, place, promise, fantasy - the ingredients of a good game. 

Story is not irrelvant, but is instead a symbol for true meaning. Could we call a novel this, as well? 

Can you 'master' a story? 

Is litearture more like a game, in a meta sense, than we realise, but it has never been codified?

Fiero, naches, kvell - are these part of literature, as well?


'The destiny of games is to become boring, not fun' - not sure about this. 

Ludemes - elements of gameplay. 

I want to keep all of this vague. 

Core mechanic

Failure needs to be real. 

Are we asking games to scratch an itch that they are not designed for? Would it be the same as asking novels to be dynamic?

SKILL as a factor - is this necessary?

Everything should relate to the theme, even if only in a an abstract way. 

Tool to unlock meaning, in the same way a novel elucidates a point of view

Players say that they want freedom, but then reduce the possibility space

Is complexity the same as pacing

Games HAVE to be given the benefit of the doubt, to allow cross-pollination to happen. 

Words are an easy way to muddy the waters - they are a mechanic. 

Playing again, for different interpretations

Game systems, the feeling of playing a story, are less easily spoiled, as so much lies in the experience. 

Koster seems to sit in the camp that says that abstract systems in a game should be fun on their own. 

Counters in games that do not do anything, but make you anxious. 

Writers need to be scientists, to influence how the tools they use will work
























