Using This Archive
==================

In these instructions, I will try to provide something more exact and less mycelial than elsewhere, always, as concerns this project; rather than treating myself to the sort of sentences I like to write, I will give into my other favourite impulse (obsessive categorisation), and try to create something considered and rapid which will prove useful to anybody trying to renovate things, even partially. I have tried to organise the archive along these lines as well, out of the entropy into which I had deliberately let it fall. Sadly, it was far more satisfying to do this than getting on with writing or making things. 

The Black Crown Project was a narrative built for the Internet. I wrote it, designed it and led the process of building it, and it was actually built by Failbetter Games, Popleaf Games and the publishers Random House, who also financed and promoted it. The entire thing was spread across various webpages, but was mainly indexed by a text-based, stagger-through-your-own-adventure game, constructed using a modified version of Failbetter Games' Storynexus platform. The rest of the material, either accessed through the Storynexus game itself or by happenstance across the internet, were 'supplementary' to the main story in the sense that they were end-nodes, with little concrete narrative of their own. I have to admit that it gave me much more pleasure to create these than the riverine constructs of the Storynexus game. They consisted of audio recordings, PDF documents, web-based manipulable objects, player forums and other things which accrued, deposited and settled onto the reader as they traversed whichever way they wished. 

The narrative had little planning before I started, though it was based on an older project which I had submitted as my final project for my Masters; a suitcase full of strange objects, and a diary describing a man's journey to a sequestered and hermetic little mountain town called Loss, and the lives he ruined there.

In the Black Crown Project, this journey is only one of many which this man took; the player takes on the role of a newly-employed clerk at the Widsith Institute, an archaeological project devoted to disinterring, and interpreting, the different writings of this figure. The Institute has no walls, or departments; the clerks sit atop a silent hill amongst silent hills, by a long straight sea, in desks separated by circles of quarantine. 

To the people of Loss, the man, a quarter-god, was known as the Miasma Eremite; to your character, he was known as something else. The reader's character must traverse the 



The project was online for around two years, between 2012 and 2014, when due to technical issues, and an accelerating culture, it was taken offline. The archive was split between my own personal one, sealed in vaccuum bags or humming in clean revolutions on my hard drives, and on the servers of the various partners in the process.

Early this year the full copyright for the project reverted to me, and I tried to take stock,






The player took the role of a new employee of the Widsith Institute, a decayed survival of an organisation which served to excavate, document and profile the writings of a long-dead explorer. He seemed to have had many different names, in different periods of his life, but for the purposes of the player's assignment he was called the Miasma Eremite. The assignment, called The Black Crown Project, concerned his visit to a small mountain town called Loss, and his adventures and misadventures there.




Extant Links
------------

(Blog posts, interviews, reviews)


Acknowledgements
---------------

If I have forgotten anyone, it is entirely my own fault for being forgetful, and not theirs for being forgettable. 

Sam North, the closest thing to a ghost guide that I have, albeit with far better (and more opaque) shirts, hair. Thank you for your guidance, your attention, your humour, the white wine, the traipsing around London with a heavy suitcase covered in biohazard stickers, dinner on Dartmoor, and for everything else. I miss you. 

Sarah, who comes first in any other order of thanks in my life.

Vael, for his exactitude, advice and expansive self-vivisection.

Joseph McShea and Isley Lynn for their continued silence, and Freesound users soundmary, natashachubbuck, ciccarelli, al-barbosa, sphion, landub, zaem, miklovan and productionnow for carefully sectioning theirs.

Paddy and Rob again, Harry, Nick, Alex, Loic, Lucy, Melissa, Ed, Sarah again and Otto Retro's Sarah for helping me put together the suitcase, posing as the people of Loss for photographs despite the stares of passersby, and making that year down south one of the best of life so far.

Dan Franklin, Harriet Horobin-Worley and everybody once at Random House. I'm sorry I didn't become what was expected. 

Jo Rodgers and Elizabeth Sheinkman from WME for their help far longer than they had to.

Alexis, Jon, Berb, Ahron, Paul, Henry, Liam and everybody else at Popleaf Games.


the painting are at random house, I think


in main_if - reference images mainly from wellcome collection and british library.




I wrote it, and it was developed by Popleaf Games, Failbetter Games and published by Random House. Unfortunately, due to [[a variety of vectors]], it was taken offline and archived in 2015. [[The copyright reverted to me entirely]] this year, and subsequently this archive represents, to the best of my effort, ability and desires, a complete and organised archive of everything relating to the project. 





Brief Overview of the story


 However, BCP was built for a very specific scenario, and there is no reason that with some work it could not be converted into another format. However, I think it's best if you understand how the original was put together, and how to navigate this archive, before you attempt this. 

The interactive text game at the core was built for Failbetter Games' Storynexus platform; therefore, it has some structures baked in. The Storynexus platform is still available at http://www.storynexus.com/s. However, BCP used a custom version of Storynexus (one of the reasons why it is no longer available online). All files relating to the game are marked with main_if. The main_if_backup_filename is the main, exported archive of all the text and other meta-data from the text game. All of this information was iinputted into Storynexus' CMS, and so there are some things to mention:

Storynexus is in maintenance mode - development of new features is unlikely. 
Not sure how long it will be around for.
Links to Storynexus docs.

-  BCP is a Storynexus 'World', complete in itsself.
- Storynexus worlds require you to create a character at the start. Your character was the main part of this. Everything about a character. (qualities)
- Storylets, also known as 'cards' in Storynexus (though we called them 'files' for BCP) are the meat of the experience. They describe an event, provide choices, and tell you the outcome of those choices. The outcome of those choices often involve qualities being added, delted or changed on your character. Each file also had a thumbnail image associated with it. Multiple storylets in chains. Success or fail events based on qualities. Rare success event.
- Qualities (I think we did just call them qualities for BCP) represent, according to failbetter, 'events that have happened'. They can be used to represent character traits, markers of events, items, progress in a task. The quality has a number attached to it. QLDs change numbers into words. Change the numbers in consequences. Notes were for me to understand qhat qualities and storylets were for. Qualities have categories (see SN documentation). Qualities also had thumbnails, but also could have different thumbnails for different levels.

Planning folder, drafts of storylets, art assets


Game was split into areas - describe them, what they were for. Had their own title-bar.

Social Acts were used briefly to allow limited interaction between players. Competitive or cooperative, quality changes.

Living Stories - running in real tiem; basically you can have a quality change after a set amount of time. Used for increasing the severity of diseases, representing the passage of time etc.

They are in some sort of order. Child Event is the result of a branch. But not in chronological order. That would take some time to put together. Look at the drafts and other planning documents to understand that.

The qualities are gone, however.

draft folder...

ask liam re. quality output?

In BCP, files were displayed on the main screen, representing your character's desk. Files would only appear if you had the correct qualities for them; this was how the flow of story was controlled. Typically, completing certain files would give you qualities that made availble other files. BCP had what was called a 'river structure'; there was a chain of files which moved you forward through the story, but along the way there were alternate routes you could take, and short diversions before rejoining the main 'flow'.

Some files had a 'Nex' value. This was to do with Storynexus' micropayments system, which works very well for games like Fallen London but which, in retrospect, was a dismally bad decision for the game I was making. Please ignore them, and please, even if we agree that you can make a commercial version of BCP, DO NOT use micropayments. I am not a big fan. 

If you want to create a straight port, Storynexus is probably a good bet.

The other main part of the storygame were additional items found outside in the world. These were hosted elsewhere on the web, and represented items which the player-character could dig up or find in the exploration of the Widsith Institute. The URLs to them were obscure, but not obfuscated; people were able to find them naturally, and share them with others. Players of the narrative text game could also find them in the game, and then use a special storylet to access them at any time. These were split into two main types: miasma objects and text shards.

see in screenshot folder how things were supposed to look.

Put screenshots in the instructions document.

Miasma Objects, built by the incomparable Popleaf Studios, were objects which could be manipulated in your browser; tactile puzzles. As well as adding to the lore of Black Crown, they also served a mechanical purpose; when and if they were 'solved', they would create an Access Code back into the Storynexus game, prompting curious newcomers to create a character and start playing the main story with a small bonus. Please note that the code for the Miasma Objects is not currently part of this archive: I'm still chasing it up.

Text Shards represented pages from the Eremite's diaries which, in a similar fashion, both players of the text game and curious web-trawlers could read. They were similar in style and format to the Miasma Objects, but could not be manipulated other than by turning pages, and did not have any Access codes assoiciated with them.

Both types also included a commentary underneath; notes by past Widsith archivists about their interpretations of the object.

Only infoboxes and planning documents included with miasma objects.

old project - with original work (both sander project and contextualising essay, and my final dissertation)

what things are still to come.

some are odt - openoffice needed.

Other parts
------------

audio - part of the objects.
forums - all gone now. Used for access codes. People talked in character. It was great.




supplements - short stories and other things used in marketing. Linked to BCP but not entirely of it.
scrivener project - need scrivener to open, but can look at text files within it.
screenshots folder.


thaanks to isley lynn on the track.











