

Parlay's Journal - juxtaposition of Yorkshire and Posh, draft press release, parlay, longer sentences with ; Beatrice is his sister, she is Rosetto
Wet Toe Club Piece
Earnest Montgomery's Song
Frame Paul's artwork
Black Crown Concept Art PDF - a few pounds to download.

Film grass

Foley Design

Breathing buttons - optional

Change the Dittation


First MySQL text - a simple form to submit bugs.

Crowdsource concept art - right to artwork

Start making press email list.

Release - packahe as desktop app? (web access) - itch.io, webapp, steam, Humble Store

Festivals, awards competitions

Set up milestones

Alpha/Beta

Mood/Colour Chart

Make the basic interactions juicy and fun

node.js

Need to have a decent grip on process first

Make the features polished, don't add more.

Through playtests, note what people are trying to do.

KS, Patreon, Donations, Incubator, Grants, Investment

Get Eoin in on the project.

Smacking head against table - scary

Blurry video on all areas.

Social Actions, Multiple Choice stories, areas (the dewcatcher, windowsill, inventory, living stories, qualities/achievements, main attributes, forum, desk hub, actions (an exhaustion mechanic instead)
Change its name - what I always wanted to call it.

Go to expos


Use British Library - Mechanical Curator	

____Something Dreadful Has Occurred.____

We are not certain what you have done. Promotion and its vibrating trillions can occasionally manifest in confusion and clumsiness. We do not blame you, however.

You can return the way you came through this link, and we will not speak again about what has happened here. You are not feeling like yourself, we understand. 

If you believe, instead, that it is our fault that something has gone wrong with our performance, you may complain here, but we cannot say that we enjoy the implication.

In addition, if you just need a moment to rest yourself and to forget about your various ailments, there are few better places than here. Nobody will disturb you, or clutter your desk with distractions, or make the pounding in your skull any worse.

May we suggest some light music? The following song can be sung to any waltz of any key. We would suggest a mandolin or guitar to accompany you, but understand that your options might be limited. 

Begin by repeating after us: Once, before there were birds, there was a bird.

The Little Sticky Bird

Once a handsome bird
Went flying 'round the world
Took it on himself to go
Further

Than any little Jute,
Angle, Dane Or Brute
Had gone in search of treasure, song
Or murder

He flew out from the shore,
Until he could go no more,
And crashed into a monastery
Of boulders

And lying on the rock,
For forty days he shook
Throwing up his guts, lights, pluck
And garters.

Until a passing Earl
Saw the splattered pearls
Of every bit of mess
That he had gargled.

She nursed him back from death
And he took in sticky breath
And bit her on the nose, teeth, teats
And shoulder! 

Now a little bird don't know
From where his health does grow
Or how he should not bite the hand
That drugs him

And she said, how close was your life
To being set quite right
Before you threw it up
Death has made you ugly

And the sticky little bird
Pretended he hadn't heard
And took a cigarette
And puffed it  

He blew it in her face<
The gas flew out to space
And crawked and crowed
“You should have let me snuff it!”

“How does a creature bear
Having quite so little hair?
How does the wind feel 
Running through your own grease?”  

She brought a finger to her breast
She had not bled for less
Clasped his beak 
And made of him a mouthpiece,

And, she said, 

WHOSOEVER BREAKS ME
WILL BREATH MY BREATH
AND SEE WHAT I SEE

WHOSOEVER BREAKS ME
WILL BREATH MY BREATH
AND SEE WHAT I SEE

WHOSOEVER BREAKS ME
WILL BREATH MY BREATH
AND SEE WHAT I SEE

Repeat until the gall lowers in your throat, or you find your way back to your desk. 


Endgame stuff

day and night options in the endgame content

Those days are long gone.

His body swells up

You know that he is lying to Wayle - he has been horrible to him on paper

Why did he call himself Earl of an Inch - the Bathetic thought I was a woman! Horrible creature

back and front matter - he elucidates.

What happens to imagination at the start, here?

The Black Crown is emblematic of - pain, thoughts, heritage, royalty, how people view themselves, how he views people - how easy it is to 

The ones who died are the people.

You had something to do.

ENDINGS - the idea of participation - do you participate in this? 
Do you have knowledge of the consequences?
An ending where it does not end, it just continues…
The story is unfinished
Kill the Eremite, get the key - the least interesting, the most animalistic.
You are involved in all of them - or is there one that just happens?
Nothing to do with time
The themes of the work
Allows different interpretations.
No default ending 
No plot
This story won't ever be written
No more ink
None of them have a game end effect. 
Do events in the game bring these in?
Are things locked off?
What is inside them does not matter.
Not a comment on structure
River structure
Reduce it to simple narrative actions - you are a creature. 
Allow people to intervene in the story
Violate rules of the genre
real-time
Death is often the most important thing
Set up other stories
What do your diseases become?
Plot holes
He has been coming back this whole time…
are these moral choices?
Killed the mop for a good reason
You made choices because you had to

Were you immune to it?

Use manuscript as a dressing, for your excretions.

He has lice?

Rubber does not hold any lice

a small england, an awful england - he hated it

Hemlock - a herb that changes you -  vegetables - just rosemary - in food

A plague ship? Where are the Portuguese?

Bruce of breath?

You have reached all that you can endure

Interplay of wind and valleys and shelter - how your imagination changes when you shelter.

Have to hold onto things. 

Worries about copyright, copying things?

Are you alive?

He lies to you - it is because you walked so far, that's why you have no feet!

Move up and out, at the end? Which way do you go?

The route to the sea

Water as a passage for ideas, for revolution. Reservoir - he keeps all of his water inside.

What does the river flow with? 

Do you not feel better, being here?

He makes things look old

He talks about the Cambium

Very spare in style - no imagination left - you are here, now. 

Jenny told me how upset I was. He only needed to check - Friend was checking to see if he was sad. 

Jenny is juvenilia - when he was a child?

Chester-Stokes had got very old

Navigating his upset.

The new clerk is dead in the storm?

He thinks it is your fault?

You woke, feeling good.

he plays a little song

Why women's room, at first?

I don't mean anything, in the end.

Nobody in the future shall own my work.

Does he show you how the Diplomat works? Or her?Another diplomat/more than one? I had many made

Hear the wind through it

pelvis broke


The smell of roasting nuts – he smells of nuts and fruit

He didn't sacrifice the vessel - the Portuguese come back, again and again

Dab at his tubes with his handkerchief - he is amazed that you kept them!

Flashing fundament

Book of Pernick - house style

All the cutlery

He made the felling

Holds up the tube

You are a bit short

The glow is in his head? - ten short bursts.

Lie him down - very sickly

She won't show her hair

Clean her fingerprints off everything

She runs off, screaming

His head gets stuck

Does she let him touch her again?

Why be with anybody?

Why not do whatever you want?

There was a landslide

You wouldn't want to use your Gift.

Tries English and Spanish and Portuguese

People always undress his head

The ship could not take the turn

We all wonder what he meant

You need the key

Chestnuts - he needs them - you can given them to him - he sucks them up.

Just chestnuts, inside? What is inside? Nothing sharp left. 

Huffing these pages

What are his sneezes like

He is not good at working

Feed me, he says

No dreams

He sockets onto Jenny

Glovolalalalalalalalal

Bent over

Berries

He humps the Eremite.

He has two eyes, not one. 

Did he kill him?

Pools of ink?

If she is dead, you just find a pool of purple water

Mr. Windchimes


I write to set myself in amber
 Easter Pills – for when you've just missed something. 

The flag

I have been abridged like previous centuries. I am misrepresented – he is angry!

Jewels around you at the beginning – another clue

Where are the flies?

Float away on the cuttle

Meadowflesh

Diseases should go up as well...

He brings out the Work's lid?

Herbs. He smells of cooking. 

He is jealous of not being able to feel water

Rip off his mask?

He does not call it Black Crown

Where is Rosetto?

Brought all the mythological here.

Calls him Whale Bane
He is so bored – how you see birds – excarnate and divine – quotes himself without readinng

The Not-Not

He asked what you knew him as? - And then says good, good

Did he have sex with you? Or is he chaste? Don't want to catch what he had.

Sexy Wayle.

He has a new cambium hanging off his tube.

Seen pigs in every place.

Find his latitude under his towel.

Made paper from the wood of your home. 

The Bathetic

Smoking?

Child's Toy – gnawed

Hankies

Where is Bluetit?




Use Tri Div for objects?

BLACK CROWN NOTES 

PARLAY
Research anthropologist's ield notebooks
More of Parlay's voice, of his tim, of his thoughts.
His grave facts
A progressive will.
A unique cataloguing system
Waterloo Teeth
Used about ten notebooks at once.
We now create mythologies for fun - how humanist,
Mine our head
Darwin's Frog - Vocal Pouch
Road-Russia
They will subdivide my rooms
Highway follows Genghis and Alexander
At Easter I would like a symphony, and a traincar to put it in.
We have lost the power of death - the offending geography is paved over
Byzantine Sudas - fortress
How does he differ from the Eremite?
Try not to be anthropomorphic.
No teeth on a frog.
What does paint do?
Cement
He smelt of lynx. 
hermeneutonaut
elements from all his books
what are pens?
what will remain of us
we already live after the apocalypse - all the Romans and Greeks are gone
Don't assume that the man at home is the master
More with the lack of space between words
Adoption is culturally basic - become the father of mankind
Problems with his sexuality
is this how a press release works? Would it be a particular imprint, signed at the bottom
He does not write in a script
link Olga
on a bigger page
More ambient description
More tooth stuff -> this is how he catalogues her

Up in Yorkshire -> Chester-Stokes -> Hogherd -> Agrarian god.
The community spirit
How to dehumanise -> top and bottom limbs called the same thing 
List of rituals
Research everyday books
His diary -> selling the estate to the farmers
Executors
Pictures of the book itself
Every civilisation has dogs, or the equivalent
Became his magnum opus, inspired many people
The story of his name
Calls herself lots of names -> imaginary friend
Day-Eyrie (diary)
Parlay's Waste
Thank their daughter Rosetto
Slaughtering pigs
Parlay's love of furniture
Choose your baggage handler properly, give her things
Cows, dogs, pigs
Parlay's Everyday Guide to Attempting Civilisation, Utilising The Tools Of Civility, Explained
4 classes of definition
Came up with his own crockery
Book details
Create things based upon their survivability
Everyday book
"loca" as a word
Biography
Totow
In notation form
The best luggage makers are found in Portugal
Edited by Chester & Stokes, the classic edition
Live next to a stone circle
"Bring one's own furniture"
Lists
many anthropologists
He drops beetroot on himself, stained
He talks a little about little Rosetta -> she will get fat
Blunderbore
Draw pictures of hands and man
He has the blue stuff too.
Here comes truth now -> Stokes family motto - Parlay mentions it
The Rustleurn -> seven year skins -> other books that Random House publishes
Penguin Classics cover?
Given to Chester-Stokes -> she lived on a farm
He talks about 'Hear The Larva'
Sodden Thoughts
Ethnodentist -> dream formula comes from the grinding of teeth
Mention the Jutes
The notes for a Study of Herds -> mixed up with travels and then coming home
Have a nice read when she feels unwell
The groundskeeper
The anthropologist's dream 
Rosetto's shoddy motherhood



WHEN GET TOOLTIP - a list of the books that you know exist.




-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Petending to be ill to get more food - go too far, make them put you down.
A fill page of NNNs on the Tumblr
The idea of spolers - despoiulers
Do you go back to the little tiled room?
Benington
Killing people does not change good and evil - Black Crown - why does violence come out?
Orsinia in Black Crown
Free Range - Animals with ablution, not understanding your place, kept outside, diseases kept at bay - explore this.
An option not to hurt the pig at the end. You die at some point, the pig dies at some point - interchangeable.
The Great Work was a draft for one where he changes it all to make himself sound brilliant?
The Eremite misquotes some of the Kindle Content
It spread out and disappeared. Does not end neatly.
Agency right to the end - think about the endings
Endings - its never been done before. Different quotes at the end.
Inviting players in - How do you know what they did? Maybe they had other adventures. Do you see any of them, out in the world? Maybe they were just seeing what you did and claiming it as their own.
Forest too literal in the travelling to centre section.
Who is chosen for the Black Crown Project?
Why do they not need food until the Dewcatcher?
More about landscape gardening, old people
More about other characters (clerks) trying to become protagonists (in the Marvel Ouse)
More about the black crown
Tiny colvano exploding
Try and talk to them.
They are scenery to your story.
Why were you the one who initiated everything?
More interesting clerks
Many are not interesting
Still don't touch, even with the suits on - didn't want any cheating on him.
Wayle does you up like a pill for the Eremite to swallow. He drinks you all when he comes home. The wave
Clerks - 'become something else entirely'
Why did he call it Widsith
The question of sex - they always felt too ill.
The idea that this conversation is changed, ytou have had it all before.
The Eremite is So aware that his work will be viewed.
Inching slightly closer and closer
Tutorial
Me, Inventory, Notes at the side - what do they mean?
Private post? What does it link to?
Imagine if an animal had eaten Christ. He was in the manger, after all.
Three feet - relating to feet in the manger?
Kill people does not change good and evil - Black Crown - why does violence come out?
Nighthead, a town where it is always bedtime but nobody has a headache.
Orsinia in Black Crown
Poetry on the erro page as an apology
Piece of flint for windowsill - cavalcante - random things on the windowsill as you go through the game. 
Killing people does not change good and evil - Black Crown - why does violence come out?
Beef and pork - the beef in the field, squalls of mutton - a word for human meat.
All writing is all the same - all academic.
Acorns in the forest - at the end
Holes in the suitcase - quarren.
Slaughterhouse quote in little tan notebook. 
Bacon quote
Remember the tiny piece of shit on the chair at the start - at the end.
Is there a chance to be alright? To be reassured, at the start, by the Shushbaby?
Slaughterhouse - from free range. That's what it is. Research slaughterhouses and put into endgame.
Black Crown should offer other options - Talking/consoling/outwitting/persuading/forgetting/protesting/sacrificing/befriending
Not just fighting - you are no better than the villain.
More about Lantern
The soup goes up to the top (that the pig is cooking)To the surface
He is not putting any of himself into the broth - only the other people's feet. Is this referenced early on?
More about Mr. Lights and Friend - That he was not her father. They have forgotten. This great amnesia.
Wayle is a pseud - Only uses words that the Eremite taught him, in a different order.
Where has all the rubber come from? Joseph Torsio.
The problem is that they did not realise that the Sorgo is a ship, and that the containers are falling all around you. Be plainer!
Chokepoint at the Diplomat; people do not realise that they have to get it.
Make it clearer that it needs to be night for you to get the 'Getting Worse' storylet.
Get rid of 'What Would You Have Burnt?' when the wave comes?
Put Scarfolk and Orsinia into the story. 
Make it clear that you are his furniture.
Could you go back to the Eremite? Do you want to?
Make the endgame end quicker, or have more endings, or more to do.
Lover's Gripe should do more throughout the game - or should it? Just a cough.
She Is So Quiet is impossible to increase.
Hearing Friend in the endgame does nothing. 
The last line of the dittation that the find is always the pneultimate one before it becomes beautiful - can never remember how it crescendoes.
Amnesia - So grouchy - it isn't about him really, is it?
He is upset that you forgot him. He never meant to. He thought that he was more memorable, more singular, than that. But he forgot you. You've both been busy. You are annoyed about other things, and take them out on him.
You were just distracted.
You stop thinking about yourself, for once, and remember him. You had other things on your mind.
The Eremite has a new Semestress, at the end. He plays it for you, a bit. Did you like or hate his playing - a different tonal range than that of your people's.
Use the phrase 'range freely'You won't die. You don't feel very hungry. You don't need to imagine it. You are divested of your suit.
Go this direction, that direction. Maybe you will find a fence.
He lets you go, but you can only go so far. You set the boundary stone as a marker. You might rest there, when you get there.
Friend does her own thing at the end. She is nothing like he describes her.
She shows emotion to the Eremite, but does not get hysterical.
She never even considered becoming pregnant, it is not part of her. Can you imagine having a baby, as a person of Loss?
She does not follow you - may follow you in one instance. She is thinking her own things, remembering her own things, and chooses not to share them with you. You get angry at her.
Life is not a spiral - Praester's journey - not a spiral, no centre or conclusion - a spiralling, an ambling, a dithering.
Check the directions in the endgame.
It is a ranging, not a turning inwards, out and in, trying to find the way.
Check Access Codes For Correctedness
More about you not being special - He sees the Bathetic in the sky. The white bird, sending out fumes.
More about being on the sidelines with the other characters.
Why are you the only one who can walk? The only one who could bother to come and see him.
More about Lamon. More chance for interaction in the Hogmagundy. He tries to get you to check for blood. He doesn't like flowers.
He seems immortal. You look for something sharp to stab him with.
Why is time so fluid? Mess all the tenses up, right at the end.
Only space has any meaning.
Because you cannot measure it - at the end. All the suns are gone, no more night. You try counting, but lose count.
Consolations of suns. Why do they follow him?
Talk about the suns in the boat outros.
Tied to the lights that you saw as a child.
Describe them, as well.
Look up into them, become blinded, cannot see as much (hides some options).
Add a branch for the wave arricing in the other hill storylets.
Add mountain closer to the burning and eating living stories in the other hill storylets.
Social acts routing back to the wrong storylets. Reliant on certain qualities that you are given in the social act.
Create some storylets that send you back there?
Check quality levels
Lover's Gripe persists when Eremite heals you - he cannot get rid of it.
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:45 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Nor is the mop. Should it be removed?
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:45 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
The River Upstairs is not removed.
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:45 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
He Heard You quality not removed in tidal wave. A way to use it?
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:44 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Anniversary Gift does nothing - do you even have it at the end?
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:44 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Your tooth does nothing.
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:44 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Prima Monstrua does nothing - make it clear that he uses it to show where the monsters are.
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:43 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Dream Formula - get rid of it. Or you find it on a fragment of desk?
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:42 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Whale's Ring - give it to him, give it to Wayle. These do things.
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:42 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Mop's Grunt does nothing, and is Nex-locked.
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:42 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Should things still be in the inventory after a certain point.
A bit weird how it ends with lying down the Eremite and then just leaving - make it less abrupt
They think that you just go back to the start. Make the endings very clear that it is an end - the Parlay quote on the last page.
Without the Frame - does the Eremite recognise you? He certainly recognises you more.
The Eremite makes more of a fuss (in a tooltip) about only liking women?
Ways for the Eremite to end you? Get in the boat, try and find your way.
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:37 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
He promises to take you home.
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:37 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
You are just very old - with qualities. Either you die because of age, or that is his excuse for killing you.
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:36 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
You look down, and he is grinding you. He has made you into furniture.
 Clearer that it is his rear end flashing
 Make it more obvious that you should play with your Diplomat - Something in the text - a link, outside of the 'Your Windowsill' storylet.
 Describe Huursuit as Huursuit more often
 You are too worried about the proximity - He says that you can come closer than 3 feet, after a while. If he is happy enough.
 In the boat - yo udo not see any of the things that come afterwards
 Why pens - We need so many of them.
 More about the ring on the head
 The Semestress - better reward - at the end what do yo udo with it? If you figure out the song, you can remember several more, and know more about the Eremite.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:42 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Can play the Semestress at the end.
Make it more interesting in 'You Loathed Her' - speed it up a little bit. Make it clear that the fire is always supposed to go out.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:41 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Just remove some?
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:41 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Some of them fail to stoke the fire. It does not want to devour them.
In-character prompts in red, relating to the game. In red, tied to red things, always in-character, but hints about what might happen.
Say that you eat something when you leave in Such Migrations - Like being with your parents again.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:36 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
To tide you over for the journey.
Wayle called him the Sea-Quail
Stop Tickle in Throat earlier in game
Buried very high unlocks a special option - You dig deeper, and find the relics of other civilisations that he left behind. He forgot to sort them properly.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:34 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Each time you go down to the Ouse - a quality that has a random description attached.
Bluetit Joan hint in Superior Waft.
No Sorgo Beach - Identify the beach.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:33 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
No desks on the hill - lots and lots of driftwood of different types.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:33 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Sorgo is not an island, lands on the beach - you still see the boundary stone, and other geographical landmarks.
How does the pig 'just know'?
The Eremite's Personality In The Endgame - He asks you whether you like him, whether he has anything to be ashamed of. How you answer, and how you walk away, is a permanent quality.
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:15 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Almost comical.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:47 - edited Apr 4, 2014 at 15:47 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
He is a bit lonely.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:46 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
You hate, or love, the things he does - in the quality descriptions.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:45 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
The rest you have to wheedle out of him.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:40 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
A few very direct answers, piercing through the murk.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:40 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
He is angry at Friend because she will not play along. She won't perform her role. Not because she is educated, but because education is not the only virtue.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:40 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Talks about your parents, and how they used to carry you about, took you on a long journey, brought you home - how does he know about that? Some hint that he was there, when that happened?
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:36 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Egotistical.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:35 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
He is insulted that you think he would be vain enough to bury his own things. He would leave it to others.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:35 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Crying, he wants to be the best, cowed by other people's writing.
Not everyone has red teeth - You see that nobody else has them - you check, when you see the dead.
Wayle had a mold-  what happened to it - The Eremite comments on his one hair, seemingly ignoring his legs. He is in anguish. It looks sore, he says.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:30 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Earlier on - point out what the skin looks like. Very thin, like a baby's head. Can see organs underneath it. So new, the first hair has not even come through.
Make it very clear that it is not an afterlife - It looks nothing like the afterlife of your people. Think how unwell you feel. What small dreams you have, if this is your afterlife. But then, dreams are small, aren't they? They are only based on what we read.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:29 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Permanent quality, if you do this.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:28 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Red letters make it clear that you can.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:27 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Ask can I not die? He says of course, and kills you. He misunderstood. He thought that you meant that you wanted to die.
The Case - Can never find out what is in there.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:39 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Pick it up, at the end, and take it with you. It is like a new creature, and it will accept its new carapace.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:26 - edited Apr 4, 2014 at 15:26 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Breathe the German Chimney into it, or cough.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:26 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Use Molloscus on it.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:25 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Use Eyam's Cleft on it.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:25 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Whisper to it.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:24 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Read the travel stickers on its side.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:24 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Try and open it, kick it over, ask it to be quiet, ask him what is inside it, lay it on its side. Make a note about how few interactions you can perform with it.
You can ask the Eremite questions, and he gives answers. Who is the pig? Where is Parlay? What is over the hills? Where are the men from the ship?
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:22 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Why did you leave again? Where am I? Why am I in this suit? Who are all these others? Did you write a Work about me? What are you? What is in the case?
He has finished writing it, or he has finished reading it? Or he has destroyed it? How can I make this clearer in speech? - solidify what the Eremite means by finishing Wayle's Work
What does Wayle want, at the end? Don't negate him so much. Allow him a chance to act, and for you to act with him.
Why can the higher-ups remember him and not others? Why can Wayle remember him, and Bluetit Joan, and Chester-Stokes? Why are their memories better?
More hint that the Eremite had different reasons for taking people - Not all of them love, or sex. Some friendship, bribery, guilt, affection, warmth, hatred, sadism.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:19 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
He finds that there are too many to keep track of.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:19 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Something in the endgame. He is trying to remember which one you were. Why did he take you? You can decide, tell him if he is lying or not.
Mountains Coming Closer - have it raises more often, or for larger values each time.
Put difficulties in excavations again - Don't make every Excavation necessary to move on - maybe 10 instead of 16, or even fewer.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:17 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Lock some off with requirements on items.
Apr 4, 2014 at 15:16 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Not too hard, just staggering them a little bit. Don't make the hierarchy too clear, though.
The diluted quote at the end of the game. Whichever ending you get, things decay slowly. (apart from the 'can I not die?' one).
Apr 4, 2014 at 16:24 - Edit - Delete
Rob Sherman (bonfiredog)
Rob Sherman
Paring down, becoming nonsense.
Why pick these excerpts? Who is setting them up? The excerpts in the qualities. Are they from the Eremite. His clippings?
Make it clearer that Wayle is being murdered.
Fix Birthday Pill content - not an ending, but does something interesting. Make a comment about pills usually being so binary - death or not.

